---
sort: 3
---
# FAQ


## What is full-text RSS?
Full-text RSS is the term I use for this type of RSS, and I don't know what the correct name is. In Calibre, it's called Embedded Content. This type of RSS already provides the full content of the article in its XML file. You only need to make one connection to get the full content of many articles, instead of having to connect to the network for each article like with regular RSS, saving a lot of time and other resource consumption.
How to confirm whether the RSS you want to subscribe to is full-text RSS? It's simple. Use a browser to open the corresponding link of the RSS and see if all the article content is already there. If it is, then it's full-text RSS. If only article summaries are provided, then it's not.


## Can full-text RSS be treated as summary RSS, and vice versa?
Of course, full-text RSS can be treated as summary RSS, which ignores the article content provided in the RSS link and directly fetches it from the original link, but it takes a little longer, resulting in a decrease in the number of supported RSS feeds. If it's summary RSS, it cannot be treated as full-text RSS, otherwise it will result in incomplete article content.


## How to customize the delivery time for a Recipe?
In addition to setting a unified delivery day and time on the settings page, each Recipe can customize its own unique delivery day and time. Once set, the unified time setting will be ignored for this Recipe. The method is to click on the circular button next to a Recipe in the "Subscribed" section of "My Feeds," then use the "Customize delivery time" button that pops up to set it. You can set it to push only on certain days or multiple times a day.
However, custom push time is only applicable to built-in and uploaded Recipes. Custom RSS feeds use only the unified time set. If you want to set the push time for a custom RSS feed, you can write its title and URL into a Recipe, and then upload it to start setting.


## How to customize the cover?
KindleEar has 7 built-in covers, which are randomly selected by default or can be configured to be selected by day of the week. You can upload your own favorite covers to replace these built-in covers. The entry is in the "Cover Image" under "Advanced" section.  
If you want to set a cover for a specific Recipe, you need to add a cover_url attribute in its Recipe source code. It can be a local file (if it's a relative directory, it's relative to the KindleEar application directory) or a web image, for example:
```
cover_url = '/temp/mycover.jpg'
cover_url = 'application/images/mycover.jpg'
cover_url = 'https://www.google.com/mycover.jpg'
```
Additionally, if you want to customize the masthead, add a masthead_url attribute, which has the same format as cover_url.


## What if I forget my password?
KindleEar does not store passwords in plain text and cannot retrieve them. If login fails due to password verification, a "Forgot Password?" link is provided. Click on this link to reset your password using the email address registered when creating your account. The reset password email address for the administrator is SRC_EMAIL in config.py.


<a id="appspotmail"></a>
## How to use the xxx@appid.appspotmail.com email address?
If your application is deployed on the Google Cloud Platform (GAE), KindleEar also provides an additional email service xxx@appid.appspotmail.com. After deploying KindleEar, you automatically have countless EMAIL email addresses in the format: xxx@appid.appspotmail.com, where xxx is any legal string and appid is your application name.
1. To use this feature, you need to add whitelist items firstly. If it's '\*', it allows all emails. Otherwise, the format is 'xx@xx.xx' or '@xx.xx' (without single quotes).
2. This service will send the contents of received emails as email attachments to your registered kindle email address. If there are only links in the email (multiple links are one per line), KindleEar will fetch the web page content and create an e-book, then send it.
3. If the subject of the email is followed by the identifier !links, KindleEar will only extract the links from the email regardless of its content, then fetch the web pages and send them to your Kindle. This feature is best for directly sending serialized web pages to Kindle for viewing.
4. If the subject of the email is followed by the identifier !article, all links will be ignored, and the content will be directly converted into an e-book and sent.
5. By default, it's sent to the email registered by the administrator. If you want to send it to another user's email, use the format: username__xxx@appid.appspotmail.com. (Note the double underscore)
6. If you send the download link of an e-book to book@appid.appspotmail.com or username__book@appid.appspotmail.com, KindleEar will directly download the corresponding e-book archive and forward it to the registered email address. (Note: GAE has restrictions on file extensions that can be emailed and cannot send file extensions that may have security risks such as exe, zip files can be sent, but zip files cannot contain files with potential security risks.) GAE's list of email-able file extensions: [Mail Python API Overview](https://cloud.google.com/appengine/docs/python/mail/#Python_Sending_mail_with_attachments) (book/file/download email addresses reserved for downloading e-books)
7. Sending to trigger@appid.appspotmail.com or username__trigger@appid.appspotmail.com triggers a manual delivery. If the subject is empty or all, it's exactly the same as the "Deliver Now" button on the webpage. If you need to push specific books, write the book name in the subject, separated by commas.
8. Emails sent to debug@appid.appspotmail.com directly extract the links from the email and send HTML files directly to the administrator's email (SRC_EMAIL) instead of the Kindle email.


## What if some websites require login to read articles?
Some websites require registering an account and logging in to read and download articles. For such websites, you can add an attribute in the Recipe source code:
```
needs_subscription = True
```
Then, after subscribing, you can select "Website Login Information" from the corresponding Recipe's popup menu to enter your login account and password.
1. Websites that require executing JavaScript or entering a captcha are not supported.
2. For some sufficiently special and complex websites, you may need to override the get_browser() function in the book subclass.
3. The password you enter is encrypted and saved, with a unique 8-character random string key for each account, which has a certain level of security. I try my best to take care of your password security. You can delete the saved password information at any time, and the password is also deleted immediately after unsubscribing from the book. However, because the key is also saved in database, the security cannot be guaranteed to be very high. Please understand and be willing to bear the risks involved.


## What's the difference between "Subscribe" and "Subscribe (Deliver Separately)"?
"Subscribe" is for combined delivery, which combines all Recipes and custom RSS feeds subscribed to with this option into one file for delivery. "Subscribe (Deliver Separately)" creates a separate file for this Recipe for delivery, which is more suitable for Recipes that generate large file or have special delivery times.


## Why does the delivery log status show wrong SRC_EMAIL?
Go to the Settings page of [GAE backend](https://console.cloud.google.com/appengine) and check if your sending email address is in the list of authorized emails. If not, add it.


## I have more questions, where can I ask?
If you have more questions, you can submit an issue at [https://github.com/cdhigh/KindleEar/issues](https://github.com/cdhigh/KindleEar/issues) and wait for a reply. Before submitting a question, it's recommended to search for previously submitted issues first. Maybe someone has already submitted a similar issue? If no one has submitted a similar issue, when you submit a new one, it's recommended to attach the Logs information of [GAE backend](https://console.cloud.google.com/appengine) or the platform you deployed to for problem location, which can also get you a faster reply.
